

                          THREE LITTLE KITTENS


Jazbury came scampering gaily up the stairs to where his mother and
Aunt Tabby were sitting on the window-sill washing their faces and
cleaning their fur.

Jazbury was a small black kitten with white markings on his face and
breast, and soft little white paws. Soft as those little paws were
there were sharp, needle claws hidden in their velvet, and Jazbury knew
how to use them when necessary, too.

Mother Bunch's tail hung down from the window-seat, waving softly. It
looked almost like a mouse, so soft and grey. Jazbury made a jump, and
caught it with his claws. His mother growled and drew her tail up and
curled it around her.

Jazbury jumped up after it, and tried to tease his mother into playing
with him.

"Jazbury, you haven't washed yourself this morning," said his aunt
severely. "Look at your paws. You've been in the coal-bin again, you
naughty kitten."

"Well, I thought I heard a mouse there," mewed Jazbury.

"A mouse! What would a mouse be doing in the coal-bin? No, you just
wanted an excuse for clambering about among the coal and making it
rattle. And now look how dirty you are."

"Sit down and make yourself clean, Jazbury," said his mother. "No; let
my tail alone. I'm not going to play with you. And if you want any
breakfast you'd better make haste to wash yourself. I will _not_ have
such a dirty kitten eating from the saucer with me."

Jazbury sat down and began to wash his face with one of his grimy
little paws.

His aunt sighed. "Paws first," she said. "You'll only make yourself
dirtier if you try to wash your face before you clean your paws."

"Oh, dear me!" mewed Jazbury crossly.

"I really don't know what's going to become of you if you don't keep
yourself cleaner," his aunt went on. "I'm really afraid something
terrible may happen to you. I knew a cat once who wouldn't wash
herself, and so her mistress used to do it for her with _water_, so she
was wet all over. Water and soap! And a sponge! How would you feel if
that happened to you some day? And it may unless you learn to keep
yourself cleaner."

Jazbury was frightened at the thought that such a thing might happen to
him, too, if he didn't keep himself clean, and he set about washing
himself in earnest. First he washed his paws, and after he had cleaned
them he cleaned his face, licking his paw with his little pink tongue,
and curling it round over his furry little cheeks and forehead and chin
and even behind his ears. By breakfast time he was clean enough to be
allowed to eat with his mother and Aunt Tabby.

The human people and the cat people had their breakfast at the same
time. The human people had theirs in the dining-room, and the cat
people had theirs in the pantry. The cat people always had very good
meals; bread and milk, and fish twice a week, and sometimes meat and
potatoes.

"What's the use of my bothering to catch mice?" Jazbury often said. "I
get all I want to eat anyway."

And his aunt would answer, "You ought to feel grateful enough for your
good meals to _want_ to catch mice for people."

But Jazbury paid little attention to such advice. All he cared for was
having a good time and play about, and if mice had to be caught he left
it to his mother and Aunt Tabby to do it.

[Illustration: _The cat people always had very good meals_]




                                   II


Jazbury's best friend was a little white kitten named Fluffy. Fluffy
lived in the house next door to Jazbury's.

At the other side of Jazbury's house was an open lot. The gentlemen
cats of the neighbourhood had a club that met in this lot every night.
It was a singing club, but sometimes the cats quarrelled among
themselves, and were very noisy. Mother Bunch and Aunt Tabby said they
wished the cats would meet some other place; but Jazbury liked to hear
them. He wished he were old enough to belong to the club, and sing and
fight, and stay out all night the way they did. But he was still only a
soft, playful little kitten, who had not even caught his first mouse as
yet.

Once Jazbury had climbed up on the fence, and jumped over into the lot.
There he had prowled about among the weeds, and chased grasshoppers,
and shiny black crickets. It was great fun.

Another kitten was hunting there, too, but he was hunting birds. He
laughed at Jazbury for catching grasshoppers. He told Jazbury his name
was Yowler, and that he belonged to the baker who lived further down
the street. Yowler had a broad, ugly face and a stubby tail, and his
fur looked dirty and uncared for. He was a yellow cat.

Jazbury liked him because he was strong and big and bold, but when
Jazbury told his mother about Yowler she said she did not want Jazbury
to play with him. She said she knew all about him; that he was a very
coarse, noisy cat, and she told Jazbury he must not go over in the lot
again.

Jazbury was allowed to go over into Fluffy's yard whenever he wanted
to. Mother Bunch and Aunt Tabby both liked Fluffy. They thought he was
a very nice, well-behaved little kitten.

One day when Jazbury climbed up on the fence that separated his yard
from Fluffy's he saw his little friend sitting down on the kitchen
steps, watching something in the grass below him. He was so intent on
what he saw that he did not notice Jazbury.

"Hello, Fluffy!" mewed Jazbury.

Fluffy jumped. Then he looked around.

"Hello!"

"What you got there?" asked Jazbury curiously.

"A toad."

"Going to catch it?"

"No, I don't like them. They haven't any fur, and I don't like the feel
of them."

"Well, come on up here. I want to show you something."

Fluffy climbed up a step-ladder that was leaning against the fence.

"What are you going to show me?"

"Do you see this fence? Well, I walked all the way round on the top of
it yesterday, and never fell off once."

Fluffy looked at the fence in silence for a moment or so. Then he said,
"That's not so much to do."

"I guess it is, too. You couldn't do it."

"Yes, I could, if I wanted to."

"Well, let's see you."

"I don't want to."

"You're afraid."

"No, I'm not, either."

"Yes, you are, too."

                             "Fraidy cat! Fraidy cat!
                             Never catch a mouse or rat."

"I _can_; I _can_ catch mice. And I can walk on the fence, too. I'll
show you."

"Walk to the post and back and I'll give you a chicken bone I found
down back of the rain-barrel."

"All right; it's a promise. Now watch me."

Fluffy set out along the top of the fence, walking very slowly and
carefully, one paw before the other.

"Hurry up! hurry up! No fair walking so slowly," said Jazbury.

"Yes, it is fair, too. And don't you mew at me."

Fluffy reached the post safely, and then tried to turn. But that was
not such an easy matter. He lost his balance. His tail waved wildly.
His claws clutched the fence. He teetered back and forth, and then,
with a loud mew, he half jumped, half fell, down on the flower bed
below.

Jazbury laughed and laughed, the way kittens do. You wouldn't have
known he was laughing. You couldn't have heard it, but a cat or kitten
could. It hurt Fluffy's feelings to be laughed at.

[Illustration: _Fluffy set out along the top of the fence, walking very
slowly_]

"I don't care. I don't believe you could do it, either," he mewed.

"Now watch me!" said Jazbury.

He ran gaily out along the fence top with never a pause or mis-step. He
ran all the way down one side without stopping, and then started across
the back fence toward the other side.

Now back of Jazbury's yard was another yard, and a very rough boy lived
there. The boy was out in the yard now. He was squirting a hose, and
another boy with a very dirty face was there with him.

"Hi!" cried the dirty-faced boy. "Look at that kitten walking along the
fence."

"Yeh!" answered the other. "I'm going to squirt the hose on him!"

"Go ahead!" cried the other. "See what he'll do."

Jazbury was very much frightened. He began to run. He might have jumped
down off the fence, but he never thought of that. He ran as fast as he
could, but before he could reach the other side a torrent of cold water
struck him, almost sweeping him off the fence. The boy was squirting
the hose on him as he had said.

Jazbury tried to hold fast to the fence; he tried to yowl, but the rush
of water filled his mouth--his eyes--his ears. Blinded and drenched, he
was finally carried off the fence by it, and landed in the yard
below--his own yard, luckily. There the fence protected him.

Fluffy looked on, horrified by what he saw.

Jazbury struggled to his feet, and ran toward the house, trailing water
after him.

"Mew, miew!" he cried. "Oh, Momma! Momma! Come quick! Miew! Miew! Miew!"

Mother Bunch heard him crying, and burst open the screen door of the
kitchen and came running to meet him.

"What is it? What is it?" she cried. "What's the matter, Jazbury?"

"Oh, I'm so wet. I'm so w-w-wet!" he shivered.

"Oh, my child, come over here!" Mother Bunch hurried him over to a
warm, sunny corner beside the kitchen steps, and began to dry him with
her pink, rough tongue.

"But how did it happen?" she asked again. "Did you fall into a bucket?"

"I didn't fall into anything except the yard. It was some boys and they
put water on me," and Jazbury told his mother the whole story.

Aunt Tabby sat by and listened gravely. "Well, Jazbury, it's really no
more than I expected," said she. "It's just as I told you. If you won't
wash yourself you'll get washed by some one else. And I must say you're
looking cleaner than you've looked for many a day."

His mother said nothing. She thought Jazbury had been punished enough
by the drenching without being lectured as well.




                                  III


"Jazbury, I've found a fresh mouse-hole," said Aunt Tabby one day.
"It's in the cupboard under the sink, and the cook has left the door
open. Come with me and I'll show it to you. I have great hopes the
mouse may come out before so very long, and if you sit there and watch,
you may catch him."

"Aunt Tabby! Oh, I don't want to watch mouse-holes today," mewed
Jazbury. "I told Fluffy I would come out and play with him. Mayn't I,
Mother? I said I would, and I don't want to sit there in the cupboard
and watch. Maybe the mouse wouldn't come out anyway, and Fluffy expects
me."

"You always have some excuse, Jazbury," said his aunt, severely. "If
you had your way you would never do anything but play. But as long as
you have to learn to mouse some time, I don't see why today isn't as
good a time to begin as any."

"Yes, Jazbury. Go with your aunt," said his mother. "And don't look
sulky. I'm sure you ought to be very grateful to her for telling you
about the hole."

"But I don't want to sit in the cupboard all morning. And _I_ can find
holes, too. I found one out in the shed yesterday. A big, big one. I'd
rather watch that one if I have to watch any."

"Very well," said his aunt. "You may do as you please about it, but I
think you'd be much more likely to catch a mouse in the cupboard."

"I'd rather watch in the shed."

His mother, too, said he might do as he chose about it, but neither she
nor Aunt Tabby had much hopes he would catch anything.

"I'll have to go out and tell Fluffy I can't play this morning," said
Jazbury.

"Don't be long," said his mother. "Come straight back as soon as you
have told him."

Jazbury promised he would, and then he ran out into the kitchen and
mewed for the cook to open the outside door for him.

"Bother those cats!" scolded the cook. "It takes all my time letting
them in and out."

She left the soup she was stirring and came over and opened the door,
and the kitten ran past her out into the sunny yard.

Fluffy was sitting on the top step of the ladder, looking over the
fence and waiting for him.

"I can't come out to play with you now. I have to catch a mouse for
Mother and Aunt Tabby."

Fluffy was much interested. "Where are you going to catch it?" he asked.

"In the shed. I found the hole myself. It's a big, _big_, BIG hole. I
guess the biggest mouse you ever saw lives in it. I guess you'd be
scared if you tried to catch a mouse as big as that one; wouldn't you?"

"Maybe I would and maybe I wouldn't."

"I know you would."

"I've caught some big mice, too," said Fluffy.

"Not as big as this one, though. I'll show him to you after I catch
him."

Jazbury ran back and mewed for the cook to open the door again. The
cook was so angry she would not open it for quite a while, but Jazbury
mewed so loudly that at last she was obliged to for the sake of peace.
When she did open it she cried, "Scat!" at him, and pushed out her foot
at him as he ran past her.

Jazbury did not mind that. He hurried on past her, and out into the
shed, the door of which was luckily open.

The hole he had found was down back of a bench, and some unused buckets
were piled up in front of it.

Jazbury crouched down in the shadow of the buckets. He crouched there
for a long time without moving, and with his eyes fixed patiently on
the hole. Aunt Tabby would have been pleased and surprised if she could
have seen how still he kept.

After a while, however, he began to feel discouraged. He wondered
whether there were any mouse there after all. Maybe Aunt Tabby was
right, and he should have watched in the cupboard.

Just as he was thinking this he heard a scratching, brushing sound
inside the hole, and a grey head with a pointed nose and two gleaming
round black eyes appeared at the mouth of the hole.

Jazbury quivered all over as he crouched still lower and made ready to
leap upon the mouse. Then suddenly he stiffened and stared with big
eyes. Surely no mouse had ever had such a big head as that. After the
head followed a great fat body, and a long, _long_, LONG tail. The
mouse was not a mouse at all, but a huge grey rat.

Jazbury was terrified. His tail grew big and every separate hair stood
on end.

The rat looked at him with a wicked grin. "Ho, ho! So you thought you'd
catch me, did you?" cried the rat. "I knew you were there. I heard you
and I smelled you. You thought you'd catch me, did you? Well, here I
am! Now let's see you catch me."

The rat sidled over toward Jazbury, and just as fast as he sidled over
Jazbury backed away. He tried to spit and growl, but he was too
frightened.

[Illustration: _The rat looked at him with a wicked grin_]

"Thought you'd catch me! Maybe I'll catch you. I like little kittens
for supper. Like 'em as much as cheese."

He gave a heavy jump toward Jazbury, and his sharp teeth showed in a
wicked grin.

"Momma! Momma! Aunt Tabby! Come quick," mewed Jazbury shrilly.

Suddenly the rat started. His eyes glared past Jazbury toward the
kitchen door. A look of terror came over his face. He wheeled about and
scuttled back toward his hole.

At the same moment there was an angry growl, and a grey shape shot past
Jazbury. It was Aunt Tabby. She had heard Jazbury's cry of distress and
had flown to help him. She rushed at the rat and made a wild grab at
him. But he was too quick for her. Already he was disappearing in his
hole. She did catch his tail, but it slipped away from her and the next
moment the rat was gone.

Jazbury began to mew pitifully.

"Why, Jazbury, what are you crying about now? You're all safe," said
his aunt.

"Mew! mew! mew! Oh, he frightened me so! I never knew there were mouses
like that!"

"Mouse! That wasn't a mouse, kitten! That was a rat, and a very big and
savage rat, too. No wonder you were frightened. You'll have to be a
bigger kitten before you can grapple with a rat. I've been trying to
have a chance at him myself, but I've never even seen him till today.
He always stays hidden when I'm around."

Aunt Tabby talked on, comforting the kitten until at last he stopped
trembling and his hairs smoothed themselves down into the usual
smoothness.

"Now, Jazbury, perhaps you'll watch one of my mouse-holes," she ended.
"I promise you nothing but mice ever come out of it."

"Very well. And thank you, Aunt Tabby," said Jazbury meekly. And he
followed her back from the shed into the kitchen, wondering what he
would say to Fluffy when he saw him again, and how he could explain not
having caught anything after all.

However, he need not have been troubled. Fluffy was such a gentle
little kitten that he never would tease or make fun of any one, no
matter what they did or didn't do.




                                   IV


The next morning Aunt Tabby again offered to show Jazbury the
mouse-hole in the cupboard.

Jazbury looked very sulky. He was ashamed to try to beg off again,
particularly after what Aunt Tabby had done for him the day before, but
it seemed hard to have to give up another morning of play.

He followed Aunt Tabby into the kitchen. The cook had gone to market
and the door of the cupboard was ajar. Aunt Tabby pushed it open and
led the way into the darkness where the pots and pans were stored.

"Here's the hole, Jazbury," she told him in a low voice. "I have a
feeling the mouse is out, and if you only keep perfectly quiet I feel
sure it will try to get back into the hole again. That will be your
chance, and I shall be very much disappointed if you do not catch your
first mouse this morning."

"I don't feel as if I could catch anything today," said Jazbury sulkily.

"Now, Jazbury, don't go about it that way. If you don't catch it, it
will be your own fault, and I shall feel very much provoked with you."

Then Aunt Tabby went away and left him there. She did not go very far,
however. She was so anxious to have him get the mouse that she lingered
close by where she could hear everything that went on in the
cupboard--though this the kitten did not know.

Jazbury crouched down in the shadow of the kettle as his aunt bade him,
and kept perfectly quiet with his eyes fixed on the hole. Not even a
whisker stirred. He _did_ wish he could catch that mouse, if only to
show Aunt Tabby what he could do if he chose. How pleased and surprised
she and his mother would be if he were really to get one. Outside the
kitchen was very still. The clock tick-tocked and the kettle simmered
on the stove.

Suddenly Jazbury heard a little scratching, scraping sound back of one
of the pots. It was so very little and faint that only a cat's ears
could have heard it. Jazbury's eyes grew round, and his muscles
stiffened ready for a leap.

Suddenly out from behind the pot whined a winged grasshopper. It flew
so close to Jazbury it almost brushed his nose.

Forgetting all about the mouse, Jazbury made a leap for it. He knocked
against a tin pan that clattered down with a tremendous din. At the
same moment a little grey shape flitted out from behind him like a tiny
shadow, slipped across the floor and disappeared down the mouse-hole.
It was the mouse, and Jazbury had lost it.

[Illustration:

  _He knocked against a tin pan that clattered
  down with a tremendous din_
]

Almost at the same moment Jazbury received a sharp box on the ear that
almost upset him.

"You _bad_ boy!" cried his aunt. "I'm just all out of patience with
you. Even when a mouse runs right by under your nose you can't catch
it."

Jazbury began to mew. "Well, you don't have to box my ears, anyway. I
couldn't help it."

"Yes, you could. That's what provokes me so. Fluffy's not half as quick
and active as you, and look at the way he catches mice. I'm ashamed of
you."

                  *       *       *       *       *

Mother Bunch's round furry face appeared at the door looking in at
them. "What's the matter? Has Jazbury been doing anything?"

"No, he _hasn't_ been doing it, that's the matter," and Aunt Tabby
poured out the whole story, while Jazbury stood by looking both sullen
and ashamed.

"I don't care; I couldn't help it," he said.

"Don't say 'don't care' to me," said Mother Bunch. "It isn't
respectful--not to me, nor to your aunt either. The mouse has gone, I
suppose, so there's no use in your staying here. You may go out on the
kitchen steps. But you mustn't play around or go over to see Fluffy.
That is your punishment for being so careless, and disrespectful, too."




                                   V


Jazbury sat out on the kitchen steps and sulked. He did not think Aunt
Tabby had any right to box his ears. And instead of being sorry for him
his mother had scolded him. It wasn't fair. He was always getting
scolded and punished. Well, he'd just run away. That's what he'd do.
He'd run away and never come back. Then they'd be sorry. Maybe they'd
cry. He just wished they would. He'd be glad if they cried.

Suddenly Fluffy's little furry white face peered over the fence.
"Hello, Jazbury."

Jazbury did not answer at once. Then he said, "'Lo!"

"What's the matter?"

"Nothing the matter."

"What you looking so cross about?"

"Nothing; ain't looking cross."

Fluffy climbed over the fence and came and sat down by Jazbury. He
looked at him once or twice, but he did not say anything. He was rather
afraid of Jazbury when Jazbury was in one of his tempers.

"Can't you come over in my yard to play?" he asked at last.

"Don't want to."

At this moment there was a scratching sound on the fence between the
yard and the lot, and a third kitten, a large yellow one, scrambled to
the top of one of the fence posts and seated himself on it. It was
Yowler.

"Hello, Jaz!" he called down, in the yowling voice that had given him
his name.

"Hello!" answered Jazbury, still very sulky.

The newcomer took no notice of Fluffy.

"I got sumpin' to tell you."

"What?"

"Can't tell you here. Come on over in the lot and I'll tell you."

"Can't."

"Why not?"

"'Cause!"

"Oh, come on!"

"I tell you I can't. I got to sit here for awhile."

"Why?"

"_Because_, I tell you."

Yowler jumped down into the yard and came over and seated himself
beside Jazbury. Fluffy drew away. The newcomer was very dirty.

"You gwan home, kit," said Yowler to Fluffy. "Me and Jaz want to talk."

"I shan't go home unless I want to," answered Fluffy, bristling up. "I
don't have to go; do I, Jazbury?"

"No. If you have anything to say, Yowler, say it."

"I'm afraid this kit'll tell."

"Oh, go ahead!" cried Jazbury impatiently. "He won't tell; will you,
Fluffy?"

"Of course not."

"Well--" Yowler paused and looked carefully round to see that no one
was listening. "I'm going to run away."

Jazbury started violently. "Run away!" How strange for Yowler to say
that. It was exactly the thing he had been thinking about.

"Yeh! Run away. I'm tired of sticking around in the baker's shop and
catching his mice for him. Let him catch his own mice if he wants 'em.
I'm tired of it, I tell you."

"Where are you going to run to?"

"Somewhere. I think maybe I'll go and live in the woods for awhile.
Want to come along? It's going to be fine."

"The woods!" broke in Fluffy. "You couldn't live there. You'd be rained
on. You'd get _wet_."

"Oh, you keep quiet," mewed Yowler roughly. "I ain't talking to you.
Don't you want to come, Jaz? There's lots of places to live,--hollow
trees and things; and birds, and field mice, and fish; we'd just have a
great time."

"But you don't know how to get there," said Jazbury.

"Sure I do. Some man brought me in from the country when I was a
kitten; a _little_ kitten, I mean; we came past a wood, and I could
find my way back there just as easy as not if I tried. Come on, Jaz.
It's going to be fine, I tell you."

"I'd just as lief as not," said Jazbury slowly. "When are you going?"

"Tomorrow morning, I guess; just as soon as the baker opens his shop
and I can get you."

"You come, too, Fluffy," cried Jazbury suddenly. "I'll go if you will."

"Oh, no!" mewed Fluffy, and Yowler chimed in, "Oh, he can't go. He's
too much of a mamma's pet. We don't want him."

"Yes, we do, too. And I won't go unless he will. Come on, Fluffy. We'll
have lots of fun. And we needn't stay unless we want to. Come on!"

It took a great deal of persuasion before Fluffy would agree to the
plan, but at last he said he would go if Yowler would promise to let
him come home any time he wanted to. He also made Yowler promise that
they would come straight back again that very day if they could not
find a cave or a hollow tree for shelter before nightfall.

[Illustration:

  _He dreamed he was trying to run down a road toward a wood
  and a dog was after him--two dogs_
]

It was arranged that they should all three meet in the lot the next
morning as soon after breakfast as possible. Yowler wanted them to
start before breakfast, but to this Fluffy would not consent. Jazbury,
too, thought it would be well to have a last saucer of milk before they
set out. They would not be apt to find much milk in the wood.

That night Jazbury was very restless. He was too excited to sleep well.
When he did doze off at last he dreamed he was trying to run down a
road toward a wood and a dog was after him--two dogs--three dogs. He
dug his nails into the ground and tried to pull himself along, but his
paws seemed to have grown fast to the ground. Then the first dog was
upon him, had caught him--was crying in his ear, "Jazbury, Jazbury,
wake up. You must be having a nightmare, you are mewing so."

He opened his eyes and there he was, safe in the warm, snug home
cellar, and Aunt Tabby was patting him, and telling him to wake up.
Jazbury was still trembling and panting from the terror of his dream.

"What were you dreaming, dear?" asked his mother.

"Oh, nothing," said Jazbury. "Just something about dogs"; and then he
snuggled up against his mother and went to sleep again, and this time
he slept quietly and undisturbed by dreams.




                                   VI


When Jazbury awoke the next morning the sun was shining in through the
cellar window, the birds were singing, and the air was full of dewy
freshness. His ugly dreams of the night before were all forgotten.
There could not have been a more wonderful day for three little kittens
to start out on their adventures.

The three of them met in the lot soon after breakfast, as they had
agreed. Yowler at once took command. "Now, kits," said he, "we won't go
all together in a bunch. That would look queer, and some one would be
sure to notice us. I'll start off first; Fluff can come next, and then
Jaz. You keep about half a square behind me, Fluffy, and Jaz about half
a square behind you. Then you can see which way I go, but nobody will
think we're together."

To this plan the others agreed.

"Suppose we meet some dogs?" said Fluffy.

"If you do, you'll just have to do the best you can. Run up an alley,
or climb a fence or something. Now come on! We'll go as far as the edge
of the lot together."

The three little kittens stole away through the weeds, and when they
came to the edge of the lot Jazbury and Fluffy stopped. They watched
Yowler cross to the other side of the street and turn a corner. Then,
after a moment or so, Fluffy followed, then Jazbury.

The others were still in sight when Jazbury turned the corner, Yowler
quite a distance up the street, and Fluffy not so far.

Two women with brooms in their hands were sweeping their pavements and
gossiping together as they swept. "Look at that kitten," said one of
them, as Jazbury ran past them. "That's the third kitten that's gone by
in the last few minutes."

"I know. I noticed that," replied the other. "Funny! Wonder where they
come from!"

As Jazbury neared the next corner he heard a sound of voices in loud
talk, and then the bark of a dog. Some boys were coming that way, and a
dog was with them. They were just around the corner.

Luckily there was an alleyway close by. Jazbury ran into it and
crouched there, and a moment later a group of rough-looking boys passed
by it, with a couple of dogs at their heels. Luckily none of them
thought of looking into the alleyway. Jazbury waited till the sound of
voices had died away, and then he came out and ran on again. Yowler and
Fluffy were far ahead now, and he had to hurry to get near them again.

A little later Fluffy had an adventure that might have been very
serious. He was going past a little brown wooden house when the door
opened, and a little girl came out, followed by an ugly-looking cur.
Almost at once the dog saw Fluffy. He gave a sort of half yelp, half
bark, and started after him. Fluffy saw him coming. There was no fence,
and no alleyway where he could take shelter. Fortunately there was a
tree a little further down the street, and it was toward this tree that
Fluffy ran for his life, his tail big, and every hair on end.

The dog was close at his heels when he dashed up the tree. He clung
there, part way up, the dog leaping and yelping below him. Jazbury
watched from behind a flight of steps, trembling and terrified. It
seemed as though any moment the dog's teeth might close on the kitten.
Fluffy clung there, afraid to try to climb higher, lest he lose his
hold, and fall back into the dog's jaws.

[Illustration:

  _It seemed as though any moment the dog's teeth might
  close on the kitten_
]

The little girl had been shouting at the dog, and now she found a
stick, and running up she beat him until he whined and ran a little
distance away. He did not go far, however, but stood watching eagerly
while the little girl tried to coax Fluffy to come down to her. But
this Fluffy would not do. He had now scrambled up to a crotch of the
tree, and sat there mewing.

Presently the door of the house opened, and a woman looked out.
"Pansy," she called to the child, "you go on and get me the yeast cake.
I'm waiting for it."

"But, mother, there's a kitten up this tree."

"I can't help it if there is. You go on, and hurry, too. It's almost
school time."

Reluctantly the little girl left the tree and went on down the street
and around the next corner. Fortunately she took the dog with her.

Carefully and warily Jazbury crept along a gutter to the foot of the
tree. "Hurry, Fluffy!" he mewed. "Come down. We must get away before
the dog comes back."

"Oh, I'm afraid!" wailed Fluffy. "I want to go home. Mew! Mew!"

"Don't stop to cry," called Jazbury impatiently. "You can't get home
now, and if you don't hurry the dog will be back again."

So urged, Fluffy managed to half scramble, half fall down the tree, and
he and Jazbury made off down the street as fast as they could go.

They had come almost to the end of the village now, and Yowler was
waiting for them.

"What kept you so long?" he mewed crossly. "I've been waiting and
waiting for you."

"A dog almost caught Fluffy," said Jazbury; and he told Yowler the
story of Fluffy's adventures. "Wasn't that terrible?" asked Jazbury.

"Oh, I don't know. He didn't get him, anyway," said Yowler impatiently.
"We'll get to the fields in a minute now, and then we can all keep
together. There won't be any one to see us."

A little later they were out of the village altogether. Before them lay
the sunny breadth of the country, a meadow and a stream, a field, and
far away the dark edge of a shady wood.

The kittens slipped through a fence and into the deep grass of the
meadow. Insects whined about them. A butterfly fluttered by, so close
above them that when Jazbury leaped for it he almost caught it. He
would have liked to chase some of the insects that flitted about, but
Yowler told him to wait. "There are plenty of other things to catch,"
he said. "Bigger things that we can really eat."

"Isn't it fun, Fluffy?" cried Jazbury. "Aren't you glad we came?"

"Yes, it is fun," answered Fluffy; but he did not seem quite as joyous
over it as Jazbury.

A little later Yowler crept away from them through the grasses. They
saw him pounce, and a moment later he came back with a little
field-mouse in his mouth.

"What did I tell you?" he purred, proudly. "Guess we won't starve here.
The fields are full of them."

They divided the field-mouse amongst them, and though none of them were
hungry it was fun to eat out there in the open meadow with the blue sky
overhead, and the warm wind ruffling their fur.

They went on again presently, taking their time, and making side
excursions through the grasses, or stopping to rest and sun themselves
in the more open places.

Not until late afternoon did they come to the wood. By that time they
were hungry again. Fluffy managed to catch a small bird, which
delighted the other two.

"Isn't he a fine catcher? What did I tell you?" boasted Jazbury.

After they had eaten the bird Yowler told the others to wait where they
were, while he went on to find a place for them to sleep.

After he left them the two younger kittens dropped into silence. Dusk
was drawing down. How big and dark and lonely it seemed in the wood.
Jazbury thought of his mother and Aunt Tabby. They must have missed him
by now. How troubled they would be. There would be good milk in the
saucer in the pantry. They must be eating their supper by now. But
maybe they would be too sad and sorry to eat.

Fluffy snuggled up close against him. "Jazbury!" he whispered.

"Yes."

"Don't you wish we were home?"

"Well, I wouldn't mind it."

"Let's go home. Let's go before Yowler gets back."

"No; that would be mean. But maybe tomorrow,--only I don't know the
way."

"Miaw-aw-aw!" came Yowler's loud voice, breaking harshly through the
silence of the wood. "Come on over here, kits; I've found a fine place
to sleep."

The other kittens hurried toward the place from which his voice had
come, and found him standing in front of a hollow tree. There was a bed
of moss and dry leaves in the hollow, and it was snug and dry. The
three kittens crept into it and snuggled down together, and soon they
were fast asleep, worn out by their journey and the adventures they had
passed through.




                                  VII


Jazbury opened his eyes and looked about him. For a moment he could not
think where he was. Instead of the white-washed walls and beams of the
cellar, the sides of the tree arched up above him; and there was Fluffy
cuddled up close against him, instead of Mother Bunch and Aunt Tabby.

Then he remembered. He had run away. He was in the wood. But where was
Yowler? He had been there when Jazbury went to sleep. Surely Yowler had
not gone away and deserted them.

"Fluffy!" he mewed.

Without opening his eyes Fluffy gave a sleepy little answering mew. He
stretched himself and yawned, showing his little pink tongue curled up
inside his mouth. Then he opened his eyes.

"Why, Jazbury!" he said in a surprised tone. He looked about him in a
startled way. "Why--why--I'd forgotten we ran away. Where's Yowler?"

"I don't know. Let's call him."

But at this moment Yowler came strolling around from behind the tree.
"Hello, kits!" he said. He had a comfortable, lazy look. He was licking
his lips, and there was a tiny feather sticking to one of his whiskers.

"Where have you been?" asked Jazbury.

"Oh, I just went out to look about."

"Well, I'm hungry. What shall we do about breakfast?"

"Yes; what shall we do about breakfast?" chimed in Fluffy.

"Oh, you'll have to catch something. There's plenty here in the woods."

"But aren't you going to help us?" asked Jazbury anxiously.

"No. I don't feel hungry. You kits go ahead. You won't have any trouble
about it. If I want anything I'll catch it later on."

"But I don't know _how_ to catch things. I never learned," said Jazbury.

"All the worse for you, but I can't help it," said Yowler cruelly.

Fluffy had been looking sharply at Yowler. Now he said, "Yowler,
there's a feather on your whiskers."

Yowler started. "Oh, is there?" he said, and he hastily wiped it off
with his paw. "You'd better hurry up if you want to catch anything." He
added. "I'm sleepy. Guess I'll take another snooze."

He went inside the tree and curled himself up in the warm spot that
Jazbury and Fluffy had just left, and closed his eyes. The two smaller
kittens stood looking at him for a moment.

"Come on, Jazbury!" mewed Fluffy. "Let's go and look for something to
eat."

The two little kittens wandered away from the tree and on deeper into
the wood. Jazbury felt very much hurt that Yowler would not come with
them. He didn't see why he wasn't hungry, too.

"I know why he wasn't hungry," said Fluffy mysteriously.

"Why?"

"Oh, I'll tell you some time."

"Why won't you tell me now?"

"I don't want to; but I'll tell you some time."

Jazbury looked about him. "I don't see wherever we're to get anything
to eat," he mewed.

"I do, right now," whispered Fluffy. "Hist! Keep still now."

[Illustration: _Fluffy dropped the bird and put his paw on it_]

He crept silently forward through the bushes, there was a sudden
leap--a squeak--a flutter, and a moment later Fluffy came back proudly
carrying in his mouth a young bird he had killed.

"Oh, goody!" cried Jazbury, "I just love bird, and I've never tasted it
but once. Aunt Tabby caught one in the yard at home and gave me a
piece. Won't Yowler be pleased? Come on! Let's hurry back with it and
all have breakfast."

Fluffy dropped the bird and put his paw on it. "I'm not going to give
Yowler any," he declared.

"Not give Yowler any! Oh, Fluffy! Why not?"

"Because. Now I'll tell you what I was going to tell you awhile ago,
and didn't. I'm just sure Yowler caught a bird this morning and ate it
all himself before we were awake."

Jazbury could hardly believe such a thing could be true. "Oh, Fluffy!
He wouldn't be so mean!" he cried.

"Well, I'm sure of it. Don't you remember the feather on his whiskers?
Anyway, you might as well eat your share of the bird for I shan't give
Yowler even a single bone, whether you eat any of it or not."

So the two little friends sat there on the soft moss and divided the
bird between them. How delicious it was! The kittens purred and smacked
their lips over it, it was so good, but all the while Jazbury had an
unhappy feeling that they were treating Yowler very badly, for he
_couldn't_ have done such a mean thing as to catch a bird and eat it
without telling them a word about it.

After they had finished eating Fluffy sat down and began to wash
himself. "You'd better wash yourself, too, Jazbury," he said. "Just
look how dirty and dusty your fur is."

"I don't care," mewed Jazbury. "I didn't come out in the woods to wash
myself, and I don't mean to do it. I'm never, never, never going to
wash myself until we go home again."

"You'd feel a whole lot more comfortable if you were nice and clean,"
said Fluffy, and he went on washing himself until his fur fairly shone
with whiteness.

Then the two kittens strolled back toward the tree. Jazbury was almost
ashamed to face Yowler. Anyway, it was not his fault. It had not been
his bird.

Suddenly Fluffy stopped, his eyes wide and excited. "There, look at
that!" he cried.

"What?" asked Jazbury.

"There! Under that bush!"

Jazbury looked, and then he saw a little heap of feathers lying under
the bush,--a wing--a tail. Fluffy went over to where they lay and
sniffed about. "I knew it," he mewed. "Yowler has been here. This is
where he killed the bird and ate it. Now you'll believe me, I guess."

Jazbury, too, went over to the bush and sniffed about, and he could
very easily tell that Yowler had been there. It made him feel very sad
that their companion should have played such a trick upon them.

When they came to the hollow tree they found Yowler still fast asleep.
Their coming awakened him. "Did you catch anything?" he asked eagerly.

"Yes, we caught a bird."

"Where is it?" Yowler sprang to his feet. "Did you bring it home?"

Jazbury and Fluffy looked at each other. Then Fluffy said, "No; we ate
it."

"Ate it! Without giving me any? What d'you mean by that? Ain't we
pardners? Here I bring you along with me, and show you a good place to
sleep, and you go and eat up all the breakfast without giving me even a
taste."

"You didn't give us any of the bird you caught," retorted Fluffy.

"Bird I caught! What d'you mean? When did I catch any bird?"

"Before we were awake. And you ate it all yourself, and never saved a
bit for us."

"I don't know what you mean; don't know what you're talking about,"
blustered Yowler. "But I'm not going to argue with you. If you can
catch things, so can I. And I can eat them all myself, too, just as
much as you can." And he stalked away, and would not answer them when
they called after him.

After that Yowler hunted by himself, and the other kittens by
themselves. At first Jazbury found it very hard to catch anything. The
birds and mice all got away from him. He would have had to go hungry or
to content himself with grasshoppers and beetles if it had not been for
Fluffy. But Fluffy was such a good little hunter that he always managed
to catch enough to eat, and whatever he caught he always shared with
Jazbury. He was a better hunter than Yowler, and after a while Yowler
said maybe they'd all better hunt together and share whatever they
might catch. "Only, of course, Jazbury ought to let us have the best
pieces," he added, "because he's no good about catching things."

"Yes, he is, too," mewed Fluffy indignantly. "He's learning. And
anyway, I'd rather share with him than with you any day, and you can
hunt by yourself, and we'll hunt by ourselves. That's the way you
wanted us to do it at first, and now that's the way we like best."

This made Yowler very angry, and he would not speak to Fluffy for a
whole day.

Jazbury, indeed, was becoming a very fine hunter,--better, even, than
Fluffy himself. Fluffy was very skilful, but Jazbury was not only
quick, he was also strong and brave; stronger and braver than the
gentle little Fluffy had ever dreamed of being.

Fluffy admired Jazbury very much, and was proud of the way he caught
things. But one thing troubled him. Jazbury _would not_ wash himself.
Every day he grew dirtier and rougher, until at last he looked more
like some wild creature of the wood than a little town kitten who
should have known enough to wash and care for himself.




                                  VIII


For some time the weather was beautiful, clear and warm and sunny. But
after about a week it changed. Clouds gathered. There was a feeling of
rain in the air, and the wind was chilly. The kittens huddled close
together at night for warmth. Yowler always took the warmest corner,
the one furthest back in the tree where the leaves were thickest and
softest.

In the daytime he went off on long prowls. Sometimes the other kittens
did not see him from the time he set out in the morning till he came
back at night. They no longer liked or trusted him, but it troubled
them that he should stay away so much. One day Jazbury asked him
whether he wouldn't show them the way home. They were tired of staying
in the woods, and he wanted to see his dear mother and his Aunt Tabby
again. When Jazbury said this he felt so sad that he began to mew
pitifully. Fluffy joined in, and the two little kittens cried bitterly.
"Let's go home!" they cried. "Oh, let's go home. We don't want to stay
here any longer."

"Hush!" cried Yowler angrily. "Oh, _hush_! I tell you I'm not going
home. Not for a long time, anyway. You may go if you like, but I
shan't."

"But we don't know the way! We don't know the wa-y-y-y!" wailed the
kittens.

"Well, I can't help that," retorted Yowler, and he stalked away and
left them still crying.

It was the very next night that a rain set in. Yowler had come home
late. Jazbury and Fluffy had already cuddled down together in the tree,
as far back as they could, for the night was chilly and damp. But as
soon as Yowler came he crowded them out of their snug nest and took it
himself.

"Oh, Yowler! We just got that place warm!" mewed Fluffy.

"I don't care! You can get another place warm. This is where I am going
to sleep."

"I don't think that's fair!" said Jazbury. But Yowler paid no attention
to him. He curled down and soon was fast asleep.

It was not long after this that the rain began. It beat into the tree.
"Oh, dear!" said Jazbury. "I'm getting so wet."

"Listen, Jazbury," whispered Fluffy. "Yowler has the only dry place
here. Do you remember that sort of little cave I found today under that
big rock? It isn't far away, and I'm sure we could keep dry there. It
isn't very big. Not big enough for all of us to sleep in, but there
would be plenty of room for you and me."

"All right," said Jazbury. "One thing's sure, we'll soon be dripping
wet if we stay here."

The two little friends crept out of the hollow without wakening Yowler,
and ran quickly over to the cave Fluffy had spoken of. It was indeed a
cosy little cave and perfectly dry, really much better than the hollow
of the tree. The two little kittens crept in and huddled down together.

Outside the rain beat. The leaves hung down from the trees, drenched
and heavy with water; the ground was sodden, but the two little kittens
cared nothing for all this.

All night they slept there as dry and comfortable as though they had
been in their cellar at home instead of out in the wild wood with only
a rock cave to shelter them.

The next morning Fluffy and Jazbury were awakened by a loud
"Miaw-aw-aw! Miaw-aw-aw!" It was Yowler calling them.

"That's Yowler," said Fluffy. "He must have awakened."

Jazbury rose and stretched himself and stepped outside the cave. It had
stopped raining; the sun was shining down through the leaves, but the
woods were still wet.

"Here we are, Yowler," he called.

Yowler came over toward the cave. He was dripping wet.

"Where have you been all night?" he asked crossly. "What did you mean
by going off without telling me? Look how wet I am! A mean trick, I
call it."

"Well, Yowler, we thought you were dry," said Jazbury. "You took the
only dry place there was, so we came over here."

"Dry place! I look as if I'd been in a dry place, don't I? I just guess
not. Sopping wet I am."

[Illustration: _He turned on them so fiercely that they were
frightened_]

"Well, Yowler, we didn't know it," said Fluffy.

"Oh, be quiet. I don't care, anyway. I'm tired of the woods. I know a
farmhouse near here where they want another cat, and I'm going there to
live. I met a cat that lives there, and he asked me to come."

"Oh, but Yowler! What's going to become of us? Can we come, too?" cried
Jazbury.

"No, you can't. They only want one cat. If you tried to tag along
they'd drive us all away."

"But won't you show us the way home first?" begged Fluffy. "Please,
please do. We're tired of the woods, too, but we don't know where else
to go."

"Well, you find some place," said Yowler. "I did, so you can, too, if
you try hard enough." With that he turned tail and stalked away through
the wood.

Jazbury and Fluffy followed him, mewing, until he turned on them so
fiercely that they were frightened. Then they stopped and stood looking
after him until he disappeared in the wood, and never once did he look
back, or say one word of good-bye to them.




                                   IX


"There! He's gone away mad," mewed Fluffy. "Now what shall we do?"

"Do! Why just what we have been doing," said Jazbury. "He wasn't any
good to us, anyway."

"Yes, but I want to go home. Oh, I _do_ want to go home; and we don't
know the way."

"Why don't we? Guess I could find it just as well as Yowler."

"Oh, could you? Could you, Jazbury?"

"Listen, Fluffy!" said Jazbury. "There was something mother told me,
and I'd forgotten all about it. I just remembered a little while ago.
She said cats--and kittens, too, if they weren't too little--could
always get home from any place if they just didn't worry about it and
try to remember the way to go. All they have to do is to love their
home, and run along without thinking, and then they'll get there."

"I don't know what you mean," said Fluffy, "but let's go anyway. Even
if we don't get home we can't be any more lost than we are now."

"But we _will_ get there," declared Jazbury. "Come on! We might as well
go right now."

"All right; I'm ready."

The two little kittens set out at once, and without any more talk about
it. They trotted away through the green depths of the wood, and after a
while the trees grew thinner, and then they came out of the wood upon a
hot, sunny stretch of dusty road.

"We go this way," said Jazbury, and he set off down the road just as if
he knew exactly where he was going.

"Are you sure this is the right way?" asked Fluffy.

"Now, Fluffy, you mustn't ask me that," said Jazbury. "I mustn't think
about it, but just run along, and we'll get there. Don't you be afraid."

Fluffy said no more, but padded along after Jazbury. Jazbury never
stopped or looked around. He just went running straight on down the
dusty road.

After they had gone for quite a distance Fluffy heard a noise behind
them, a thudding sound, and with it a sound of rumbling and rolling. He
looked around, and there behind them came a great, enormous horse and a
buggy, with two ladies driving in it.

"Jazbury," he mewed softly, "there's something coming."

Jazbury stopped and looked round. Then he ran over to the side of the
road, and crouched down. "Come over here till they get past, Fluffy,"
he said.

Fluffy trotted over and crouched down beside him.

Nearer and nearer came the horse and buggy, the horse thudding along
and the buggy rumbling after it.

Just as the buggy came to where the kittens were one of the ladies
cried out, "Oh, Sarah! Look there! Look at those kittens."

The buggy stopped, and the two ladies leaned forward, staring at
Jazbury and Fluffy.

"How do you suppose they ever got here?" asked the lady.

"I don't know," answered her companion. "I suppose some one wanted to
get rid of them and dropped them here."

"Isn't that wicked! What shall we do about it?"

[Illustration: _They were almost hidden by the dusty weeds_]

The talking went on. The kittens could hear the voices, one soft and
gentle, the other quick and decided.

"Let's get down among the weeds, Fluffy," whispered Jazbury. "Then we
can creep away."

The kittens ran, crouching, down into a dry gutter beside the road.
There they were almost hidden by the dusty weeds.

"Oh, Sarah! They're running away!" cried the soft-voiced lady.

"I'll catch them!" said the other. She hastily clambered down from the
buggy, and ran over to the side of the road and parted the weeds. When
the kittens looked up they could see her big face above them looking
down at them. Then her hands came down through the weeds, and caught
them by the napes of their necks. One hand caught Jazbury and the other
hand caught Fluffy. The hands lifted them out of the weeds and up into
the air.

The kittens were very much frightened. Fluffy hung quietly, with his
legs and tail curled up, and his head on one side, but Jazbury fought
and struggled, and tried to scratch the hand that held him.

"Did you ever see such a little wildcat?" the lady called to her
friend, as she carried the kittens back to the buggy.

"Here! Let's put them in a bag!" cried the other lady.

She dived down under the seat of the buggy and got out a big brown bag,
and held it out with the mouth open ready for the kittens to be dropped
into it.

A moment later and Fluffy and Jazbury found themselves in the bag, with
the mouth of it tied tight, so that they could not possibly get out.
The bag, with them in it, was laid in the back part of the buggy, and
then the rumbling and thudding began again as the buggy drove on. The
kittens were jolted and shaken about.

"Oh, Jazbury!" mewed Fluffy. "What do you s'pose they're going to do
with us?"

"I don't know. We'll have to try to get out."

Jazbury began to tear and bite at the loose threads of the bag, but he
could not make even the least little hole in the bagging. After awhile
he gave it up and began to mew loudly.

"Mew! Me-ew-ew-ew!" he cried.

"Mew-ew! Me-ew-ew-ew! Mew-ew-ew!" cried Fluffy.

The buggy rumbled and jolted. The kittens mewed and mewed. Now and then
they stopped and listened. Then they could hear the voices talking up
above them. Then they would mew again louder than ever.

After a while the buggy stopped, and the bag with the kittens in it was
lifted out and carried into the house. The bag was opened again, and
the two big faces looked in on them.

"Did you ever see anything as dirty as the black one?" said the lady
who caught them. "I hated to touch him. I know one thing; if I'm going
to keep him, the first thing I'm going to do is to give him a good
scrubbing with tar soap."

"Oh, Sarah!" cried the other. "You oughtn't to wash cats. You'll make
him sick. Get the white one out for me, won't you? I'm afraid to put my
hand in. I'm afraid the black one will scratch me."

Miss Sarah put her hand down in the bag, and lifted Fluffy out and gave
him to her companion.

"Isn't he too sweet?" cried that lady. "He doesn't look a bit dirty,
either. I'm going to take him right over home and give him something to
eat. I expect he's hungry."

After she had gone, Miss Sarah closed the bag and carried it a while
and dumped it down again. Jazbury heard her call, "Bring me a basin of
water out in the shed, Hannah, and that tar soap from up in the
bathroom closet."

[Illustration: _He spit and mewed and fought, but she held him there_]

Jazbury did not know what the words meant, but they frightened him.

A little later the bag was untied again and turned upside down, and
Jazbury was shaken out of it. Trembling and frightened, he looked about
him. He was in a shed. Miss Sarah was there, and another woman with a
checked apron on.

"Poor little thing! He looks scared to death," said the woman with the
checked apron.

"I know," said Miss Sarah. "I just hate to wash him, but I can't take
him into the house till he's clean."

Then a terrible thing happened to Jazbury. Miss Sarah stooped and
picked him up, and before he could catch his breath she had put him in
a basin of water. He spit and mewed and fought, but she held him there.
She splashed water over him, and she rubbed him with soap. She rubbed
the soapsuds in around his ears, and over his forehead, and even down
his little black nose. She soaped his legs and his body and his tail.
Then she washed the soapsuds off. Last of all, she wrapped him in a
towel and rubbed and rubbed and rubbed him.

By that time Jazbury was too miserable to fight. He only shivered and
shook and mewed pitifully now and then.

"There!" said Miss Sarah at last. "That's about as dry as I can get
you. You poor little thing! You shall have a good meal to comfort you."

She carried Jazbury into the house, and his fur was so clean that it
fairly shone and glistened like black satin. "You're a real beauty,"
said Miss Sarah, "and I never would have guessed it when I picked you
up in the road."

That's the way Jazbury began life in his new home. It was a very
pleasant home except for one thing; Miss Sarah would wash him every now
and then.

He had plenty to eat and drink. There were soft chairs and sunny spots
to sleep in, and as soon as he was used to the place, and Miss Sarah
thought he would not run away, he was allowed to go out of doors
whenever he wanted to.

The first day he was allowed to go out he found there was a flower
garden in front of the house. It was a fine place to play. Paths wound
about among the flower beds. Bees buzzed busily from bloom to bloom,
and bright butterflies floated about overhead.

Jazbury examined it all over. There was a paling fence between it and
the garden next door. When Jazbury came near this fence he saw a little
furry white face peering through at him between the palings. It was
Fluffy.

"Oh, Jazbury!" he called joyfully. "I was watching for you. I hoped
you'd come out soon."

"Why! did you know I lived here?"

"Yes. The lady that carried me away that day just took me in next door.
I knew our yards were next to each other."

"Come on over," said Jazbury.

Fluffy squeezed through between the palings, and the two little kittens
greeted each other joyfully. They rubbed noses and purred and purred.
After that they began to play. They ran races along the paths, and
tried to catch the butterflies, and had a fine time together.

At lunch time Fluffy had to go home, but he and Jazbury agreed to meet
out in the garden every single day, unless it rained, and play together
just as they used to do. It made Jazbury very happy to know he was to
have his little friend living so near him.




                                   X


It was a warm, sunny day in June.

The two little kittens had met as they often did, under a large blush
rosebush in the garden. Jazbury did not seem as lively and playful as
usual.

"What's the matter with you, Jazbury?" asked Fluffy. "You seem so
quiet. Don't you want to play?"

"No."

"Why?"

Jazbury was silent for a moment. Then he said, "I've just had a bath
again."

"Oh, Jazbury! Not again?"

"Yes, again. With water. And soap. And rubbed afterward. You know. I
told you all about it."

"But, Jazbury!" cried Fluffy. "What does she do it for? Of course you
_were_ dirty at first. You know you were. You really needed to be
washed then. I don't believe you could have cleaned yourself, you were
so _very_ dirty. But you don't need to be bathed now."

"Course I don't. I wash and wash myself. I wash every day. I wash
myself just as much as you do. And I'm not going to stand being
_scrubbed_ with water. No, I'm not."

"But what are you going to do about it?"

"I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to run away. _I'm going
home!_"

Fluffy started.

"Oh, Jazbury! You're not--not _really_ going home? Where our mommas
live?"

"Yes, I am. I'm going away tonight before she has a chance to wash me
again."

"Oh, goody! goody!" cried Fluffy. "And I'll go, too. May I, Jazbury? I
want to."

"All right. You meet me out here tonight when it's too dark for any one
to see us. I'll be waiting for you."

The two little kittens were so excited over this plan that Jazbury grew
quite cheerful again. How wonderful it would be to see their mothers
again, and to play in their own back yards. They felt as though they
could hardly wait to set out on their homeward journey.




                                   XI


It was dark; the stars were in the sky, and the fireflies were
flickering among the flowers of the garden when Jazbury and Fluffy met
under the rosebush again.

"Are you there, Jazbury?" mewed Fluffy.

"Yes; waiting for you. Come on!"

The two little kittens stole down the garden path to the gate, and out
into the road beyond.

"Are you sure you can find the way, Jazbury?" asked Fluffy.

"Now, Fluffy, you mustn't begin asking me that," said Jazbury. "If I
begin thinking, we'll get lost. We've just got to go along the way I
_feel_ like going, and then we'll get there."

The kittens were silent after that. They trotted along steadily through
the starlit night. They had no trouble about keeping to the road, for
kittens can see just about as well in the dark as in the light.

They came to the place where the ladies had found them that day that
now seemed so long ago. After a while they passed a big white gate, and
a long lane leading up toward a barn. There was a farm-house on beyond
the barn. They heard a dog barking there.

"Oh, Jazbury! I hope that dog won't come and catch us," whispered
Fluffy.

"Course he won't. He's too far away to see us."

The next moment the kittens stopped short, their little hearts leaping
with terror. Something was moving stealthily among the weeds at the
roadside. A dead twig cracked. There was a sound of breathing, and a
gleam of big yellow eyes.

"What's that, Jazbury?" whispered Fluffy.

"Hus-s-sh! I don't know!"

There was a silence. "Jazbury, I'm scared. Let's get away," whispered
Fluffy again.

"Hush, I tell you!"

The thing, whatever it was, was coming out from the weeds. Jazbury's
tail grew big. His fur stood on end. The next moment a well-known yowl
broke the stillness.

"Yowler!" cried Jazbury.

"Yeh! Yowler," answered that kitten, as he gave a leap out from among
the weeds. "Hello, kits! I didn't know who you were until I heard you
whispering together. Where are you bound for?"

"We're going home," said Jazbury. He was not at all glad to meet with
Yowler again.

"Going home, are you! Well, now, that's not half bad. If you like,
maybe I'll go along with you."

"But I thought you wanted to live on a farm," said Fluffy.

"Well, so I did, and I've been living there, but I don't have to stay
in one place all the time."

"Don't you like it there?" asked Jazbury.

"Sure I did. Like it fine. Sure had a grand time. But I guess maybe the
baker's looking for me, and I might as well go home. One place's just
as good as another for me."

Neither Jazbury nor Fluffy wanted Yowler with them again, but they did
not know how to tell him that.

"Well, let's go on," said Jazbury. "No use staying here all night."

As the three kittens trotted along through the starry darkness Yowler
began to ask the kittens about where they had been living, how they had
been treated, and what they had to eat.

"Had pretty good times, didn't you?" he said at last.

"Yes; but we like our own homes best!" mewed Jazbury.

Yowler was silent for a while. Then suddenly he burst out, "Tell you
what! I said I liked it fine at the farm, but I didn't. They treated me
mean. Never got a thing to eat but mice and rats, and had to catch
everything for myself. They kept me in the barn, too, and if I even so
much as poked my nose outside it the dog was after me. Wow! If I'd had
a home like you two, catch me leaving it! But some kits have all the
luck."

Fluffy and Jazbury felt quite sorry for Yowler. He must indeed have had
a very hard time. But then, as Fluffy said to Jazbury later on, if he
hadn't been so mean to them and run away and left them, he might have
found a good home, too, just as they had, and have stayed there if he
had chosen to.




                                  XII


Mother Bunch and Aunt Tabby were sitting on the kitchen steps, feeling
very sad.

It was a long time since little Jazbury had run away and left them, but
they could not get used to being without him. Bitterly did they miss
his fun and his liveliness and all his pretty ways.

"The quickest, strongest, handsomest kitten I ever had," said Mother
Bunch.

"If I only hadn't boxed his ears that time," mourned Aunt Tabby, "maybe
he wouldn't have run away."

"You mustn't let yourself think that," mewed Mother Bunch. "I guess we
were both of us a little hard on him."

Suddenly there was a sound of scratching and scrabbling on the fence
between the yard and the lot.

"Oh, if that were only little Jazbury," mewed Aunt Tabby sadly.

"Don't say that; you know it couldn't be," said Mother Bunch.

A moment later both cats sprang to their feet with a loud mew.

Above the top of the fence appeared a little black and white face, two
white paws, a black body, a black tail waving like a flag. It was
Jazbury.

He jumped down into the yard, and rushed up to his mother and Aunt
Tabby. Fluffy followed him.

"Momma! momma!" he mewed. "Oh, Aunt Tabby! I'll never run away again.
Oh, I'm so glad to be home!"

He and his mother and Aunt Tabby rubbed noses, and the cats kissed
Jazbury, cat fashion, and mewed aloud with joy.

"And little Fluffy, too!" cried Mother Bunch. "Oh, how glad your mother
will be to have you home again. She's so unhappy about you."

None of them noticed, at first, that Yowler had followed the other two
kittens into the yard, and was now sitting over near the fence grinning
at them.

"It was very, very naughty of you to run away, Jazbury," said his aunt.
"We've been worried to death about you."

"I know," mewed Jazbury, "and I'm so sorry. But I'll never do it again,
Aunt Tabby. Indeed I won't."

"I suppose you ought to be punished," sighed his mother, "but I'm so
glad to have you back again I haven't the heart to do it."

At that moment Aunt Tabby espied Yowler sitting there grinning at them.

"Did you go away with that Yowler cat?" she cried. "Did you, Jazbury?
Tell me at once."

"Well, yes, I did."

"I knew it! It's all his fault. S-s-st! Gr-r-r-r! Get out of here, you
bad cat!" And Aunt Tabby flew at Yowler so fiercely that he gave a wild
miaw, and flew over the fence and disappeared from sight.

"And don't you ever dare to come back again," Aunt Tabby growled after
him.

And Yowler never did. Maybe he went back to the baker's, and maybe he
left the neighborhood in search of a better home, but at any rate
Jazbury never saw him again.

And now Jazbury and the two cats settled down on the kitchen steps
together, and Jazbury told his mother and Aunt Tabby all his adventures
ever since that early morning when he had stolen away from home.

Little Fluffy had already climbed over into his own yard in search of
his mother, so there were only the three of them.

The two older cats listened eagerly to Jazbury's tale. "And I'll tell
you one thing, Aunt Tabby," mewed Jazbury as he ended his story, "I
learned to keep myself clean while I was at Miss Sarah's. You needn't
ever bother over that again."

"Well, that's a good thing," replied his aunt. "Almost worth running
away for, I should say."

"I don't know about that," sighed his mother. "I don't know whether
even that was worth all the unhappiness he gave us."

And Jazbury felt very sad at the thought of all the trouble he had
caused.

That night the kitten slept in his own cellar again, with his dear
mother and Aunt Tabby, one on either side of him. How safe and warm and
happy and sheltered he felt.

When his mother and Aunt Tabby awoke the next morning, however, Jazbury
was no longer there.

"What _has_ become of him?" mewed Aunt Tabby. "He surely can't have run
away again."

"Oh, no! Never think such a thing," cried his mother. "He has just gone
on upstairs. Let's go and find him."

The two cats hurried up the cellar steps together. They found the door
at the top already open. As they entered the kitchen they saw Jazbury
dragging something in from the shed beyond. Something that was too
heavy for him to lift.

[Illustration: _They saw Jazbury dragging something in from the shed
beyond_]

"Jazbury, what _have_ you got there?" cried his mother.

Jazbury dropped the thing and ran over to her. "It's the rat," he said.

"The rat!" cried Aunt Tabby. "Not the rat that lived in the shed, and
that I've been trying to catch for such a long time!"

"Yes, that's the one," mewed Jazbury.

The cats could hardly believe him. They ran over and examined the rat
all over, sniffing at it.

"But how ever did you manage to do it?" cried Aunt Tabby. "Why, the
creature's almost as big as you are."

"Well, you see, I _had_ to learn to catch big things in the wood,"
mewed Jazbury. "The rat didn't know that; he thought he could frighten
me the way he had done before. So when I went out to the shed
early--before you were awake--he came out to catch me; but I caught
him, instead."

Then how his mother and Aunt Tabby praised and petted him! Not another
kitten in the neighbourhood, not even Fluffy himself, could have done
such a thing as that.

But Jazbury was not spoiled by their praises. "Any cat could have done
it," he said, "if they could only have caught it. It was only because
he thought he could frighten me that I had a chance to get him."

But from that time on Jazbury became famous as a mouser, and he kept
himself so clean that when he grew up he was one of the handsomest cats
in all the neighbourhood around.

                                THE END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Three Little Kittens, by Katharine Pyle

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THREE LITTLE KITTENS ***

***** This file should be named 48420.txt or 48420.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/8/4/2/48420/

Produced by Chris Curnow, readbueno and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
